Updating the Sequence Diagram (#19)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-network-device-subscription: draft-ietf-rats-network-device-subscription.md

{{sequence}} below is a sequence diagram which updates Figure 5 of {{-rats-riv}}. This sequence diagram adapts {{-rats-riv}} by replacing the TPM-specific challenge-response interaction model with a {{RFC8639}} Dynamic Subscription to an \<attestation\> Event Stream. The contents of the \<attestation\> Event Stream are defined below within {{attestationstream}}.

### Term Mapping

The terms defined in {{!RFC9684}} are mapped with the Attestation Subscription Model (without a Broker) defined {{-rats-models}} for the specialized sequence diagram illustrated below.

The following terms defined in {{-rats-models}} are mapped:
* 'handle' is specialized by a 'nonce' generated by the Verifying Relying Party that is a nonce-value byte string from either the tpm12-challenge-response-attestation RPC or the tpm20-challenge-response-attestation RPC as specified in {{!RFC9684}}

> * 'attEnvIDs' is specialized by 'TpmName' that is a TPM "name" text string selected from the 'tpms' Container as specified in {{!RFC9684}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `attEnvIDs` is substituted with `TpmName`, a TPM "name" text string selected from the `tpms` Container, as specified in {{!RFC9684}}
```

* 'claimsSelection' is specialized by an optional 'PcrSelection' that is a "pcr-index" from either the tpm12-challenge-response-attestation RPC or the tpm20-challenge-response-attestation RPC as specified in {{!RFC9684}}. If no PCR is selected, all PCR banks are returned.

> * 'claims' is specialized by 'PcrQuotes' as specified in the "output" of either the tpm12-challenge-response-attestation RPC or the tpm20-challenge-response-attestation RPC as specified in {{!RFC9684}}. In contrast to event logs, there is no delta to a previous iteration of PCR Quotes during a subscription, but all new (selected) Quotes are conveyed as fresh Evidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `claims` is substituted with `PcrQuotes`, which is the "output" of either the tpm12-challenge-response-attestation RPC or the tpm20-challenge-response-attestation RPC, as specified in {{!RFC9684}}. Unlike event logs, there is no delta to a previous iteration of PCR Quotes during a subscription; all new (selected) Quotes are conveyed as fresh Evidence.
```

* `eventLogs` represents "system-event-logs" that are in the "output" of the log-retrieval RPC, as defined in {{!RFC9684}}.
* `eventLogsDelta` represents "system-event-logs" as specified in the "output" of the log-retrieval RPC as defined in {{!RFC9684}} where the "output" is limited as if the "input" were parameterized via an index type (last-entry, index, timestamp) set to the last event in the previously conveyed `eventLogs`.

~~~~ aasvg
.----------.                                 .-------------------------.
| Attester |                                 | Verifying Relying Party |

> '----+-----'                                 '--------------------+----'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.----------.                                .--------------------------.
| Attester |                                | Verifier / Relying Party |
'----+-----'                                '---------------------+----'
```

|    |                                      appraiseEvidence(evidence, |
|    |                                                      eventLogs, |
|    |                                                      verInputs) |
|    |                                       attestationResult <= |    |
|    ~                                                            ~    |
|    |                                                            |    |
| .--------[loop]----------------------------------------------------. |
||   |                                                            |   ||
|| ============[Delta Evidence Generation and Conveyance]============ ||
||   |                                                            |   ||
|| generateClaims(attestingEnvironment)                           |   ||
||   | => PcrQuotes, eventLogsDelta                               |   ||
||   |                                                            |   ||
|| collectClaims(PcrQuotes, ?PcrSelection)                        |   ||
||   | => collectedClaimsDelta                                    |   ||
||   |                                                            |   ||

> || generateEvidence(handle, TpmName, collectedClaimsDelta)        |   ||

Reviewer 2: where this handle comes from?

||   | => evidence                                                |   ||
||   |                                                            |   ||
||   | {evidence, eventLogsDelta} ------------------------------->|   ||
||   |                                                            |   ||
|| ====================[Delta Evidence Appraisal]==================== ||
||   |                                                            |   ||
||   |                                     appraiseEvidence(evidence, ||
||   |                                                eventLogsDelta, ||
||   |                                                     verInputs) ||
||   |                                       attestationResult <= |   ||
||   |                                                            |   ||
| '------------------------------------------------------------------' |
 '--------------------------------------------------------------------'
     |                                                            |
~~~~
{: #newsequence title="YANG Subscription Model for Remote Attestation"}

> ### Mapping Time Considerations

Author: ```suggestion
### Time Considerations Mapping
```

> {{-rats-arch}} defines "Relevant Events over Time" in RATS. The following sequence diagram focusses on matching the defined events with the interactions between the Attester and the Verifying Relying Party. The event "Claims Collection" defined in {{-rats-models}} are not defined by {{-rats-arch}} and therefore cannot be matched.

Author: ```suggestion
{{-rats-arch}} defines "Relevant Events over Time" in RATS. The following sequence diagram focusses on matching the defined events with the interactions between the Attester and the Verifying Relying Party. The event "Claims Collection" defined in {{-rats-models}} is not defined by {{-rats-arch}} and therefore cannot be matched.
```

~~~~
.----------.                              .-------------------------.
| Attester |                              | Verifying Relying Party |

> '----+-----'                              '--------------------+----'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.----------.                             .--------------------------.
| Attester |                             | Verifier / Relying Party |
'----+-----'                             '---------------------+----'
```
